readme: update from the slides from the presentation (#56)
osbuild/manifest-db: README.md

Stores all the manifests and corresponding image-infos to test OSbuild.

# Introduction

![](https://mermaid.ink/svg/pako:eNo9j70OwjAMhF_F8kxfoAMTDJXoAiPpYBqnWGoclDpCCPHuhN_NJ393p7vjmDxji2FO1_FM2WC3d9odu0gTg-cgKiZJB2iaiRUiqQRerGnW0B_7rxqc9hWAtJyKzB5e3y5-Q0RDGnCFkXMk8bXs7hTAoZ05ssO2nrWIymwOnT4qWi6ejLdeLGVsA80Lr5CKpcNNR2wtF_5BG6EpU_xT_Db1n1XvcY8nBzNOUA)

## Image definitions

> Image definitions are the Way we describe an image and do exist for every image

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Image definitions are the way we describe an image and there is one for every image
```

we support. Definitions can be found in
[osbuild-composer/internal/distros](https://github.com/osbuild/osbuild-composer/tree/main/internal/distro)

### Image definitions must be tested

> - We need to run OSBuild against every one of them

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- We need to run OSBuild against each one of them
```

> - Check the build is *correct*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Check whether the build is *correct*
```

what to do to make an Image

## Image info

The [Image info](https://github.com/osbuild/manifest-db/blob/main/manifest-db/centos_8-aarch64-ami-boot.json#L6868) is a JSON representation of an image

Generated by the tool
[`image-info`](https://github.com/osbuild/manifest-db/blob/main/tools/image-info)
it contains a list of discoverable pieces of information such as:
- Package list
- Network configuration
- ...

## Test cases

Combination of manifest and image-info. They are the reference point of what is
`correct` for a given input. They must be generated and stored for later use

## Test cases generation

### Manifests

With a stable version of Composer, a manifest is
[generated](https://github.com/osbuild/osbuild-composer/tree/main/cmd/gen-manifests)
for each image definition
- Easy to run, consume few
[resources](https://github.com/osbuild/manifest-db/blob/main/.gitlab-ci.yml#L58)

### Image info

With a stable version of OSBuild

* Generate an image for each manifest
* Generate an image info for each image

Generation is a [heavy duty
task](https://github.com/osbuild/manifest-db/blob/main/.gitlab-ci.yml#L75):

- Requires a machine per `arch+distro`
- And up to

> [2h10](https://gitlab.com/redhat/services/products/image-builder/ci/manifest-db/-/jobs/3119412435) to build a set of manifests on a machine

Reviewer: This link is bound to expire soon, no?

Author: I'm trying to find out what's the gitlab policy regarding the storage lifecycle. I don't find any data on the subject. There's only timeout related information for CI's artifacts.

Author: I removed it in the end.
